# Version 1.0 Change Log (2011-11-09)

## Release Features

* A swimlane-orientated heatmap designed to indicate differences between individual pairs of participating applications grouped by the time that they were detected.
* The heatmap can be zoomed to seven different levels of granularity:
  * Daily;
  * Every eight hours;
  * Every four hours;
  * Every two hours;
  * Hourly;
  * Half-hourly;
  * Quarter-hourly;
* The ability to pan the heatmap with a mouse.
* A paginated list of individual differences based on a particular pair and detection time.
* A detailed content viewer for an individual entity that provides the following functions on a per-entity basis:
 * The ability to persistently ignore differences that are not possible to avoid but have no relevance for the overall health of the system;
 * Configurable remote repair actions that can be executed with the scope an individual entity.
* Implementation of a Merkel tree algorithm to produce a version digest for a large number of underlying business entities.
* Implementation of the core Diffa agent that implements the core Participant REST query protocol for:
  * Scanning for aggregated digests;
  * Scanning for entity detail;
  * Retrieval of entity content.
* Pluggable policies to define how version information should be compared between participants:
* The following policies are provided:
  * A same version policy whereby upstream and downstream participants are expected to return the same version digest to indicate equality;
  * An experimental correlated version policy that relaxes the requirement for upstream and downstream participants to publish identical digests.
* A sliding window protocol to allow upstream and downstream real time events sufficient time to match each other off before raising a difference.
* Support for submitting real time events via AMQP.
* A re-distributable support library that provides the low level RESTful request handling required to implement a Diffa participant.
* Configurable upstream and downstream endpoints that define separate URLs for scanning and content retrieval.
* Configurable pairings of endpoints with the ability to define:
  * Version policies;
  * The length of the matching window;
  * Scheduling of automatic participant scans in a cron style fashion.
* The ability to query participants in a partitioned fashion according to arbitrary business level attributes.
* Query categories can use the following data types:
  * Date;
  * DateTime;
  * String;
  * Integer.
* Query categories can be bound or unbound. Setting bounds for a category can be expressed in terms of:
  * Range queries;
  * Set membership;
  * String and integer prefixes;
* Query categories associated with individual endpoints can be refined into arbitrary subsets to provide reduced views of the entire partition.
* Scans for individual category views can be triggered manually or via a scheduled mechanism.
* The ability to disable scanning for a parent query category to prevent manual invocation of a potentially very large data set.
* Configurable actions that can invoked with the scope of a difference or a entire pairing.
* Configurable escalations that can be invoked as the result of scan for differences.
* POSTing bulk difference reports to a configurable handler as a batched alternative to automatic escalations.
* A settings UI that facilitates the following use cases on a per-pair basis:
  * Triggering a scan for an entire pair;
  * Triggering of a scan for each view defined within the scope of a pair;
  * Triggering of a number of arbitrary remote actions that are defined within the scope of a pair;
  * Viewing the current scan activity;
  * Cancelling any scan that is currently running;
* Pairs and endpoints and their associated differences can be grouped into arbitrary organizational domains.
* A domain can be configured via a humanly readable XML file.
* The ability to define individual users and to configure them to be a member of any number of given domains.
* Domain membership provides the authorization to view and invoke actions with the context of a domain.
* Basic authentication for individual users. 
* A RESTful API for the following functional areas on a per-domain basis:
  * Configuration:
     * Retrieving and applying the XML configuration;
     * CRUD operations for:
         * Endpoints;
         * Pairs;
         * Repairs;
         * Escalations.
     * Listing domain membership;
     * Adding or removing a user to or from the domain.
  * Scanning:
     * Initiating a scan for a particular pair or for all pairs;
     * Cancelling a scan;
     * Viewing the current state for all pairs.
  * Diagnostics:
     * Retrieving the current diagnostic state for a pair. 
  * Differences:
     * Getting a list of outstanding differences for the domain in a paged format;
     * Getting a zoomed view of the differences within a specific time range;
     * Retrieving the verbatim detail from each participant for an individual difference event;
     * Ignoring and un-ignoring individual differences.
  * Changes:
     * Submitting a change for a given endpoint within a domain.
  * Actions:
     * List all actions;
     * Invoke a pair scoped action;
     * Invoke an entity scoped action.
  * Escalations:
     * List all configured escalations.
* A RESTful API for the following functional areas on a system-wide basis:
  * User management;
  * Domain creation and removal.
* A facility to automatically update and migrate the database schema of a currently deployed instance of Diffa.
* Simple SMTP notifications of differences with a configurable quiet period.
* A facility to diagnose the results of digests received from participants and real time events and explain the differencing decisions inferred from them.
