 Version x.y Change Log (yyyy-MM-dd)

## Release Overview

...

## New Features

* [146] - Authentication for external scan participants can now be configured on a URL-specific basis
* [143] - Reworked inventory upload form to be pair-focused, along ith other UI/UX improvements.
* [142] - Inventory upload datetime constraints use a date picker for the date portion.
* [135] - Inventory upload form input fields are clearable with an "x".
* [129] - Improvements to the inventory submission form, including a JavaScript date picker for date range categories.
* [128] - Registered users and domains are now exposed via the Diffa scanning protocol so the agent can act as a participant
* [126] - Introduced a new REST API for performing arbitrary queries for time aggregated differences
* [111] - Support arbitrary limiting of operations in participant scanning, real-time event submission and inventory submission.
* [107] - Added the ability to initiate a scan from behind a firewall
* [84]  - If we've got at least two endpoints defined, then try to make selecting the endpoints in the settings page sensible
* [138] - Auto-focus on newly added constraint rows in the settings page
* [159] - Authentication lookups no longer hit the database on every poll
* [162] - Replace DBCP with BoneCP for DB connection pooling 
* [168] - Rate limit the submission of Real Time Events (Change Events).
* [180] - Replace the codeboxes from the content viewer with a lightbox that shows when a diff row item is double-clicked.
* [186] - Expose the system and domain limit APIs via the REST API
* [195] - Provide a mechanism for users to persist their visibility preferences

## General Maintenance

* [154] - Introduced a (generic) layer to cache calls to the service limits store and provided a Hazelcast backed implementation.
* [109] - Log a summary of each Query triggered by a participant scan.
* [113] - Improve validation of pair definitions.
* [114] - Ensure that changes without attributes are processed.
* [118] - Make sure that ChangeEvents contain the mandatory fields
* [123] - Matched entities are now updated in caches immediately
* [124] - Replacement mechanism for caching results of aggregation.
* [127] - Support for infinite panning on the heat map
* [132] - Made sure that a change to a pair or endpoint config results in a change the Etag returned when querying for differences
* [134] - Reduce startup and pair registration time by using Apache httpclient instead of Jersey.
* [151] - Curtail accumulation of open file descriptors by closing the IndexWriter of each pair on a regular basis.
* [152] - Ensure that we do not generate malformed URLs when performing aggregate scans on an endpoint URL specified with a query string.
* [155] - Re-instated the diagnostic log buffering
* [156] - The demo participants config file had bit rotten slightly
* [161] - Eliminated some DB calls that were slowing down the differences store.
* [169] - The Oracle-specific hook calling IndexRebuilder was not correctly wired in certain circumstances.
* [170] - Sequences for the diffs and pending diffs tables are now generated by the application, not the database
* [172] - Add a constraint to the diffs and pending diffs tables to make sure that entity id, domain and pair are unique
* [174] - Make sure that a user cannot king pin themselves when applying a domain config.
* [175] - Remove event buffer and max files fields from pair definitions
* [178] - Fixed a bug in the rate limiter which unfairly rejected some actions which should have been accepted.
* [182] - Allow limiting the maximum physical response size that we accept from a participant
* [187] - Ensure alphabetical ordering of elements in the UI
* [194] - Introduce caching of some calls in the domain config store
* [189] - Allow a user to specify if an endpoint sorts keys by their ASCII-equivalent values, or via the Unicode Collation Algorithm
* [198] - Port domain and system config options away from Hibernate.
* [199] - Port domain members away from Hibernate.
* [190] - Ensure that only printable characters from the ASCII range are valid for use in entity IDs
* [204] - Port escalations, repairs and reports away from Hibernate.

## Library Upgrades

* Upgraded to Lucene 3.6.0
* Upgraded to Akka 2.0.1
* Upgraded to Hazelcast 2.1.2

## Upgrading

Diffa will automatically upgrade itself to this version from release 1.4 onwards.
