# Version 1.0 Change Log (yyyy-MM-dd)

## Release Features

* A swimlane-orientated heatmap designed to indicate differences between individual pairs of participating applications.
* Implementation of the core Diffa agent that implements the core Participant REST query protocol for:
  * Scanning for aggregated digests;
  * Scanning for entity detail;
  * Retrieval of entity content.
* Pluggbale policies to define how version information should be compared between participants:
* The following policies are provided:
  * A same version policy whereby upstream and downstream participants are expected to return the same version digest to indicate equality;
  * An experimental correlated version policy that relaxes the requirement for upstream and downstream participants to publish identical digests.
* A sliding window protocol to allow upstream and downstream events sufficient time to match each other off before raising a difference.
* A re-distributable support library that provides the low level RESTful request handling required to implement a Diffa participant.
* Configurable upstream and downstream endpoints that define seperate URLs for scanning and content retrieval.
* Configurable pairings of endpoints with the ability to define:
  * Version policies;
  * The length of the matching window;
  * Scheduling of automatic pariticpant scans in a cron style fashion.
* The ability to query pariticpants in a partitioned fashion according to arbitrary business level attributes.
* Query categories can use the following data types:
  * Date;
  * DateTime;
  * String;
  * Integer.
* Query categories can be bound or unbound. Setting bounds for a category can be expressed in terms of:
  * Range queries;
  * Set membership;
  * String and integer prefixes;
* Configurable actions that can invoked with the scope of a difference or a entire pairing.
* Configurable escalations that can be invoked as the result of scan for differences.
* POSTing bulk difference reports to a configurable handler as a batched alternative to automatic escalations.
* The ability to persistently ignore differences that are not possible to avoid but have no relevance for the overall health of the system.
* A settings UI that facilitates the following actions on a per-pair basis:
  *
